>> Woodruff: GRAPHIC IMAGES AND
GRIM DETAILS HAVE EMERGED OF A
MASSACRE IN SOUTH SUDAN.
THE WHITE HOUSE CALLED IT AN
ABOMINATION, MEN, WOMEN AND
CHILDREN SLAUGHTERED BY REBELS
LAST WEEK, LEAVING "PILES AND
PILES" OF BODIES IN THEIR WAKE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
ALSO AHEAD, PRESIDENT OBAMA
ARRIVED IN JAPAN, KICKING OFF A
FOUR-COUNTRY SWING, PART OF A
LONG-PROMISED FOREIGN POLICY
PIVOT TO ASIA, IN THE SHADOW OF
A RISING CHINA.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, A PROMISING
NEW DRUG TO TREAT THE LIVER-
DESTROYING HEPATITIS-C,
BRINGING DRAMATIC RESULTS SO
FAR, BUT AT A HEFTY PRICE.
>> EACH PILL IS A THOUSAND
DOLLARS, AND AT A TYPICAL
TREATMENT OF 120 DAYS, THE
DRUG'S EXTRAORDINARY COST
HAS RAISED CONCERNS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: OFFICIALS IN SOUTH
KOREA NOW SAY SEARCH TEAMS HAVE
RECOVERED AT LEAST 156 BODIES
FROM A SUNKEN FERRY.
NEARLY 150 OTHERS REMAINED
UNACCOUNTED FOR AS THE SEARCH
OPERATION ENDED ITS EIGHTH DAY.
DIVERS ARE HAVING TO NAVIGATE
THE DARK DEPTHS AND WILL HAVE TO
RIP THROUGH CABIN WALLS TO FIND
THE REMAINING VICTIMS.
ANOTHER BRIEF GLIMMER OF HOPE
FADED TODAY IN THE SEARCH FOR
THAT MISSING MALAYSIAN PLANE.
INVESTIGATORS FOUND SHEET METAL
WITH RIVETS THAT WASHED ASHORE
IN SOUTHWESTERN AUSTRALIA.
BUT, INITIAL ANALYSIS FOUND NO
CONNECTION TO THE JETLINER.
MEANWHILE, MALAYSIA'S GOVERNMENT
ANNOUNCED AN INTERNATIONAL TEAM
WILL INVESTIGATE THE
DISAPPEARANCE.
>> INDEED, IT IS IMPERATIVE FOR
THE GOVERNMENT TO FORM AN
INDEPENDENT TEAM OF
INVESTIGATORS WHICH IS NOT ONLY
COMPETENT AND TRANSPARENT BUT
ALSO HIGHLY CREDIBLE.
AS I'VE CONSISTENTLY SAID SINCE
THE BEGINNING, WE HAVE NOTHING
TO HIDE.
>> Ifill: OFFICIALS IN BOTH
MALAYSIA AND AUSTRALIA ALSO
INSISTED THEY'RE NOT READY TO
GIVE UP THE SEARCH.
RIVAL PALESTINIAN GROUPS HAMAS
AND FATAH HAVE REACHED A NEW
RECONCILIATION DEAL.
THEY AGREED TODAY TO FORM AN
INTERIM UNITY GOVERNMENT WITHIN
FIVE WEEKS, AND THEN HOLD
ELECTIONS.
HAMAS RULES GAZA, AND FATAH
RULES THE WEST BANK.
SEVERAL PREVIOUS UNITY
AGREEMENTS HAVE FAILED.
ISRAEL AND THE U.S. REGARD HAMAS
AS A TERROR GROUP.
BOTH GOVERNMENTS CRITICIZED THE
ANNOUNCEMENT.
RUSSIA AND THE U.S. TRADED NEW
VERBAL BLOWS TODAY OVER UKRAINE,
JUST DAYS AFTER AGREEING TO TRY
TO EASE TENSIONS THERE.
THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER,
SERGEI LAVROV, SAID WASHINGTON
ENGINEERED THE UPHEAVAL THAT
BEGAN LAST FALL.
IN WASHINGTON, A STATE
DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN CALLED
THE COMMENTS "LUDICROUS."
VIOLENT CLASHES ERUPTED
OVERNIGHT IN RIO DE JANEIRO,
JUST WEEKS BEFORE BRAZIL HOSTS
THE SOCCER WORLD CUP.
TENSIONS FLARED IN A SLUM, KNOWN
AS A FAVELA.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM NICK
RAVENSCROFT OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
>> Reporter: IN THE HEART OF
RIO'S TOURIST SLUM, MAYHEM.
BARRICADES SET ON FIRE IN
PROTEST AT THE DEATH OF A LOCAL
MAN THOUGHT TO BE AT THE HANDS
OF POLICE.
THIS MOBILE PHONE FOOTAGE
CAPTURED THE MOMENT THAT POLICE
MOVED IN WITH LIVE ROUNDS.
LOCAL PEOPLE CAN BE HEARD
SCREAMING AS THEY FLEE IN FEAR.
IT WAS THEN THAT ANOTHER LOCAL
MAN WAS SHOT DEAD WITH POLICE
REPORTEDLY MISTAKING HIM FOR A
DRUG TRAFFICKER.
"HE CAME DOWN FROM THE FAVELLA,"
SAYS THIS MAN.
"THE POLICE ASKED HIM TO STOP.
HE PUT HIS HANDS UP TO SHOW HE
HAD NO WEAPON.
EVEN SO THEY SHOT HIM."
A GROUP OF FRENCH TOURISTS
ARRIVED TO STAY AT A HOSTEL UP
IN THE FAVELLA, PICKING THEIR
WAY THROUGH W
WE HAD TO EXPLAIN TO THEM WHAT
HAD HAPPENED.
ARE YOU SCARED?
>> YES.
YES, I'M SCARED.
>> WE HAVE TO GO.
>> Reporter: DOWN HERE IS THE
ENTRANCE TO THE FAVELLA WHERE IT
ALL STARTED EARLIER.
YOU CAN STILL SEE THERE'S A LOT
OF POLICE ACTIVITY HERE.
IF WE JUST MOVE AROUND YOU CAN
SEE THAT WE'VE GOT THE SHOCK
BATTALION OF RIO POLICE, THAT'S
THE ELITE POLICE BATTALION
WAITING IN RESERVE.
AND OVER HERE JUST ONE BLOCK
AWAY IS THE FAMOUS COPACABANA
BEACH WHERE THOUSANDS OF FANS IN
ABE WATCHING THE
FOOTBALL.
50 DAYS AND COUNTING, WITH TV
STUDIOS BEING BUILT ON
COPACABANA BEACH, BIG SCREENS
AND COUNTLESS HOTELS FOR FANS,
THIS LATEST OUTBREAK OF VIOLENCE
IS AT THE CENTER OF RIO'S WORLD
CUP.
ACROSS THE CITY THEY'VE BEEN
TRYING TO PACIFY NEIGHBORHOODS
CONTROLLED BY VIOLENT ARMED
GANGS.
BUT IT IS FAR FROM JOB DONE.
IN SEVEN WEEKS THESE STREETS
SHOULD BE HOSTING A WORLD CUP
PARTY.
BUT RIGHT NOW THERE IS ONLY
ANGER AND FEAR.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
THE GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA SIGNED A
LAW ALLOWING PEOPLE WITH GUN
LICENSES TO CARRY FIREARMS INTO
BARS, SOME GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS,
AND PLACES OF WORSHIP.
IT ALSO LETS SCHOOL EMPLOYEES
CARRY GUNS, IF SCHOOL DISTRICTS
APPROVE.
FEDERAL PRISON INMATES WHO'VE
SERVED MORE THAN 10 YEARS, AND
HAVE NO HISTORY OF VIOLENCE,
WILL BE ENCOURAGED TO SEEK
PRESIDENTIAL CLEMENCY.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT FORMALLY
ANNOUNCED THE NEW CRITERIA
TODAY, AS PART OF AN EFFORT TO
SHRINK THE PRISON POPULATION.
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL JAMES
COLE SAID IT'S AIMED PRIMARILY
AT DRUG OFFENDERS GIVEN HARSH
PENALTIES UNDER OLD SENTENCING
GUIDELINES.
>> WE ARE LAUNCHING THIS
CLEMENCY INITIATIVE IN ORDER TO
QUICKLY AND EFFECTIVELY IDENTIFY
APPROPRIATE CANDIDATES,
CANDIDATES WHO HAVE A CLEAN
PRISON RECORD, DO NOT PRESENT A
THREAT TO PUBLIC SAFETY, AND
WERE SENTENCED UNDER OUT-OF-DATE
LAWS THAT HAVE SINCE BEEN
CHANGED, AND ARE NO LONGER SEEN
AS APPROPRIATE.
>> Ifill: MORE THAN 23,000
INMATES MAY BE ELIGIBLE FOR
CLEMENCY CONSIDERATION, UNDER
THE REVISED RULES.
WALL STREET'S SIX-DAY WINNING
STREAK CAME TO AN END TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 12 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,501.
THE NASDAQ FELL 34 POINTS TO
CLOSE BELOW 4,127.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED
FOUR, TO FINISH AT 1,875.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
THE SLAUGHTER OF MEN, WOMEN AND
CHILDREN IN SOUTH SUDAN;
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PUSH TO RE-
AFFIRM HIS PIVOT TO ASIA;
HIGH HOPES FOR A NEW HEPATITIS-C
DRUG, BUT WITH A HEFTY PRICE
TAG;
THE HEAD OF THE N.T.S.B. ON
MAKING TANKER TRAINS SAFER;
AND THE FAT
COURT'S LATEST AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION RULING.
>> Woodruff: A MASSACRE IN THE
WORLD'S NEWEST NATION HAS
PROMPTED CONDEMNATION FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE.
THIS COMES AS EFFORTS TO RESOLVE
THE POLITICAL STRIFE IN SOUTH
SUDAN AND EASE A LOOMING
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS SUFFERED
ANOTHER SETBACK THIS WEEK, AFTER
RECONCILIATION TALKS WERE
POSTPONED.
A WARNING TO VIEWERS, SOME
IMAGES IN THIS REPORT MAY BE
DISTURBING.
>> Woodruff: THE U.N. CONVOY
MADE IT'S WAY THROUGH THE
STREETS OF BENTIU OVER THE
WEEKEND, AND BODIES QUICKLY CAME
INTO VIEW.
THEY WERE STREWN IN THE STREETS
AND PILED IN FRONT OF THE MOSQUE
WHERE PEOPLE HAD SOUGHT SAFETY.
TOBY LANZER, A U.N.
REPRESENTATIVE IN SOUTH SUDAN,
WISEAFTERMATH OF THE
KILLINGS FIRSTHAND.
>> WHAT I HAVE SO FAR SEEN IN
THE MOSQUE AND OTHER PART OF
TOWN IS REALLY BEEN VERY, VERY
HEART WRENCHING, CERTAINLY
ATROCITIES HAVE BEEN COMMITTED
HERE ON VERY SIGNIFICANT SCALE.
>> Reporter: SOUTH SUDAN'S
FOREIGN MINISTER CHARGED THAT
REBELS OF THE "NUER" ETHNIC
GROUP, LED BY THE COUNTRY'S
FORMER VICE PRESIDENT, WERE
BEHIND LAST WEEK'S VIOLENCE.
>> THE REBELS OF DOCTOR RIEK
MACHAR HAVE VIOLATED THE
CESSATION OF HOSTILITIES AND
HAVE ACTUALLY, HAVE CARRIED OUT
A MASSACRE IN BENTIU TOWN WHERE
CIVILIANRE THE
CHURCHES, AT THE MOSQUES AND AT
THE HOSPITALS.
IT IS ONE OF THE MOST DISGUSTING
EVENTS ONE HAS EVER SEEN.
>> Reporter: MACHAR REJECTED THE
ACCUSATIONS, AND SAID HIS TROOPS
COULD NOT HAVE BEEN INVOLVED.
SOUTH SUDAN'S 11 MILLION PEOPLE
ARE MADE UP OF ABOUT 60
INDIGENOUS ETHNIC GROUPS, THE
LARGEST BEING THE NUER AND THE
DINKA.
THE COUNTRY HAS STRUGGLED WITH
ETHNIC FIGHTING SINCE GAINING
INDEPENDENCE FROM SUDAN IN 2011.
BUT U.N. OFFICIALS SAY THAT IN
BENTIU, THE TARGETS INCLUDED NOT
ONLY DINKA, BUT TRADERS FROM
DARFUR AND NUER PEOPLE WHO
REFUSED TO CHEER THE REBELS'
ARRIVAL.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CONDEMNED THE
KILLING.
IN A STATEMENT, HE SAID:
MEANWHILE, THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
HEADED FOR PROTECTION AT THE
U.N.'S BASE IN BENTIU.
IT NOW HOLDS 22,000 CIVILIANS,
BUT THEY'RE LIMITED TO JUST ONE
LITER OF WATER PER PERSON, PER
DAY.
>> Woodruff: WE TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT THIS CONTINUING CRISIS
WITH NANCY LINDBORG THE
ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR FOR
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE AT THE
U.S. AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT.
SHE WAS RECENTLY IN SOUTH SUDAN.
AND KHALID MEDANI, AN ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE
WITH A FOCUS ON AFRICA AT MCGILL
UNIVERSITY.
HE IS ORIGINALLY FROM SUDAN.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
NANCY LINDBORG WHAT IS THE
LATEST ON THE SITUA
THERE?
>> WELL, AS YOU'VE JUST SEEN,
THIS IS AN ABSOLUTELY
HORRIFYING ATTACK.
AND IT IS PART OF WHAT WE
ARE SEEING AS AN ESCALATING
SERIES OF KILLINGS THAT
BEGAN LAST NOVEMBER.
AND IT'S BECOMING A CYCLE OF
REPRISALS.
IT IS TARGETING WHAT WE JUST
SAW, WOMEN AND CHILDREN
WHICH IS-- THAT'S A WAR
CRIME.
THE UNITED STATES IS
SUPPORTING THE U.N.
COMMISSION OF INQUIRERY AND
WE'RE ACTIVELY LOOKING TO
IDENTIFY INDIVIDUALS WHO
MIGHT BE CHARGED UNDER THE
RECENT SANCTIONS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS AT
STAKE HERE?
ARE THE AID AGENCIES LIKE
USAID WHERE YOU ARE-- ARE
THEY ABLE TO KEEP PEOPLE
SAFE?
>> THERE IS A GIANT
MOBILIZATION OF HUMANITARIAN
ASSISTANT UNDER WAY IN SOUTH
SUDAN, BOTH TO TRY TO REACH
THOSE PEOPLE WHO HAVE RUSHED
TO THE U.N. COMPOUNDS FOR
SAFETY.
THERE IS ALSO A HUGE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE HARD TO
REACH IN A COUNTRY THAT HAS
VERY FEW ROADS.
THE BEST OF
TIMES TEETERING
ON-- SECURITY.
OUR CONCERN IS IF WE ARE NOT
ABLE TO GET ASSISTANCE TO
PEOPLE IN THE COMPOUNDS AS
WELL AS IN THE HARD TO REACH
PARTS OF SOUTH SUDAN, THAT
THIS COUNTRY WILL TIP OVER
INTO FAMINE AND DISEASE AS
PEOPLE ARE CROWDED INTO
THESE COMPOUNDS WITH VERY
LITTLE ABILITY TO HAVE CLEAN
WATER AND SANITATION.
>> Woodruff: PROFESSOR MEDANI,
HELP US UNDERSTAND THE OR
BEGIN OF THIS.
WE HEARD-- ORIGIN OF THIS.
WE HEARD THE COUNTRY'S
FOREIGN MINISTER SAY THE
VICE PRESIDENT RIEK MACHAR
IS BEHIND THIS.
IS THAT THE CASE?
MILITIA WHICHT IT IS THE
IS ORGANIZED AROUND HIS
ETHNIC GROUP IS DEFINITELY
BEHIND IT DESPITE CLAIMS TO
THE CONTRARY.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT IS
CLEARLY EVIDENT WITH RESPECT
TO THE ROOTS OF THE CONFLICT
THAT BEGAN ON DECEMBER 15TH
IT IS ESSENTIALLY A
POLITICAL RIVALRY BETWEEN
MACHAR AND THE PRESIDENT,
DINKA, SO THE ORIGINS AND
VIOLENCE BEGINS AS EARLY AS
DECEMBER 15TH AT LEAST IN
THIS LATEST STAGE AND
ACTUALLY THE DINKAS WERE THE
ONES WHO INITIATED A LOT OF
THE VIOLENCE IN THE CAPITOL
AND OF COURSE IT QUICKLY
EXPANDED FROM THE CAPITOL
INTO THE NORTHERN AREAS, IN
TWO PRIMARY STATES WHERE
BENTIU IS AND A TOWN IN
UPPER NILE STATE.
SO THE FACT IS THAT AS BAD
AS THIS PARTICULAR MASSACRE
IS, THERE HAVE BEEN VIOLENCE
ON BOTH SIDES.
AND AT THE ROOT OF THE
CONFLICT, OF COURSE S THIS
POLITICAL RIVALRY BETWEEN
THESE TWO POLITICAL LEADERS
THAT I LEND TO THESE
DIFFERENT ETHNIC GROUPS.
>> Woodruff: SO HOW MUCH OF
THIS IS POLITICAL RIVALRY AS
YOU ARE DESCRIBING IT, AND
HOW MUCH OF IT IS ETHNIC
BETWEEN THESE TWO DIFFERENT
GROUPS?
>> WELL, I WOULD SAY THAT IT
IS, OF COURSE, THE
CONSEQUENCES HAVE BEEN AS WE
SEE, HAVE TO DO WITH
INTERETHNIC CONFLICT OF A
VERY VIOLENT VARIETY.
BUT AT THE VERY ROOT I THINK
THAT THE REAL CRUX OF THE
PROBLEM IS POLITICAL.
I MEAN INITIALLY
SALVA-- DISMISSED THE VICE
PRESIDENT MACHAR ACCUSING
HIM OF TRYING TO DO A COUP
AGAINST HIM AND MACHAR
DENIED THAT AND QUICKLY TOOK
UP ARMS AGAINST HIM.
SO THE IT IS
VERY, VERY IMPORTANT.
AND ALSO IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO HIGHLIGHT THAT THE GREAT
KIND OF LEVELS OF VIOLENCE
THAT WE'RE SEEING OR
WITNESSING ARE ESSENTIALLY
CENTERED AROUND THE TWO MAIN
OIL PRODUCING STATES.
THE BENTIU IS THE OIL HUB
WHERE A LOT OF THE OIL IS
EXPORTEDnd AFTER THIS
MASSACRE THERE WAS YET
ANOTHER ONE, A SMALLER ONE
IN-- STATE ALSO SO WHAT WE
SEE IS THAT A LOT OF THE
VIOLENCE IS CENTERED AROUND
THE STRUGGLE OVER RESOURCES
AND OIL ON THE PART OF BOTH
THE OPPOSITION, THE
GORILLAS-- GUERILLAS AND
REBELS BUT ALSO OF COURSE ON
THE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT
THAT IS TRYING TO RE-- THESE
OIL RICH AREAS.
>> FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF
THE YOOBTED STITZ AND OTHER
COUNTRIES WHO ARE TRYING TO
CALM THINGS DOWN FROM THE
OUTSIDE, IS THERE A CONCERN
THAT THIS COULD SPIRAL OUT
OF CONTROL AND BECOME EVEN
THOUGH THE PROFESSOR SAID
IT'S NOT PURELY AN ETHNIC
FIGHT, CLEARLY THAT'S AN
ELEMENT HERE THAT THIS COULD
BECOME ANOTHER VERSION OF
RWAWH ETHNIC
KILLING ON A MASSIVE SCALE?
>> WELL, WE'RE CLEARLY
HORRIFIED AT THE MASSACRES
THAT HAVE JUST OCCURRED.
AND THE HOPE AND THE CONCERN
IS THAT YOU HAVE LEADERS
RIGHT NOW WHO ARE CHOOSING
THEIR OWN POLITICAL POWER
STRUGGLE OVER THEIR PEOPLE.
THEY HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PULL THAT BACK THERE ARE
PEACE TALKS GOING ON.
WE'VE JUST DEPLOYED OUR
SPECIAL ENVOY TO ETHIOPIA,
TO TRY TO SEE IF THE PEACE
TALK PROCESS CAN BRING THESE
LEADERS BACK FROM THE BRINK.
I WAS IN THE U.N. COMPOUND
THAT HAD KILLINGS LAST WEEK
WHEN I WAS THERE JUST A FEW
WEEKS AGO.
I MET WITH A WOMAN NAMED
MARY WHO HAD A TWO-DAY OLD
BABY, ALONG WITH HER FIVE
OTHER CHILDREN.
SHE BEEN ON THIS COMPOUND
SINCE THE VIOLENCE IN
MID-DECEMBER.
WE ARE LOOKING AT SOME OF
THESE PLACES THAT WILL BE
UNDERWATER WHEN THE RAINS
COME.
AND IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO
REACH THE HARD TO REACH
AREAS THROUGH BETTER ACCESS,
THAT IS TO YOU BEING BLOCKED
BY BOTH SIDES, WE ARE
LOOKING AT FAMINE.
THESE LEADERS NEED TO CARE
ABOUT THEIR PEOPLE.
>> PROFESSOR, WE REPORTED
EARLIER AND WE'VE JUST
REFERRED TO IT AGAIN, THE
TALKS HAVE BROKEN DOWN.
WHAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN FOR THE
TWO SIDES TO COME TOGETHER,
REACH SOME KIND OF AN
AGREEMENT?
>> WELL, UNFORTUNATELY AS
YOU COULD PROBABLY SURMISE
FROM THE ACTIONS OF BOTH ON
THE PART OF THE GOVERNMENT
AND THE REBELS IS THAT THEY
ARE TRYING ESSENTIALLY TO
ESTABLISH FACTS ON THE
GROUND.
MACHAR HAS FORMALLY
ANNOUNCED THAT HIS STRATEGY
IS TO TRY TO TAKE CONTROL OF
THE OIL-PRODUCING AREAS.
SO WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO DO,
OF COURSE S TO
ESTABLISH-- ON THE GROUND SO
THEY CAN HAVE THE UPPER HAND
IN NEGOTIATION.
THIS IS ONE OF THE REASONS
THAT THIS CONFLICT HAS
SPIRALLED OUT OF CONTROL AN
AND-- BUT I THINK IN TERMS
OF YOUR QUESTION WHAT IS
IMPORTANT IS TO HAVE A MUCH
MORE VIGOROUS KIND OF
POLITICAL YOU KNOW,
SETTLEMENT.
AND THAT REQUIRES REALLY
ENCOURAGING REGIONAL
COUNTRIES.
UGANDA, KENYA, EVEN SUDAN UP
NORTH.
AND OF COURSE THE AFRICAN
UNION TO ENERGIZE THIS
POLITICAL PROCESS.
>> AND IS THAT HAPPENING
NOW?
>> IT'S NOT HAPPENING NOW,
UNFORTUNATELY.
THERE IS, OF COURSE, THE
U.S. ADMINISTRATION HAS
TALKED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY
OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO
PARTICULAR INDIVIDUALS.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE HAVE
UGANDAN TROOPS ON THE GROUND,
IN SOUTH SUDAN, ON THE SIDE
OF THE PRESIDENT.
AND SO IT IS VERY DIFFICULT
FOR THEM TO PLAY HONEST
BROKER SO, TO SPEAK.
SO WHAT WE NEED IS A MUCH
NOR ENERGETIC REGIONAL
EFFORT THAT INCLUDES THE
AFRICAN UNION BUT ALSO THESE
MAJOR PLAYERS IN THE REGION
WHO CAN REALLY PUT PRESSURE
ON THESE REBEL GROUPS.
BECAUSE IN MANY WAYS THEY'RE
SUPPORTING THEM DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY.
AND THAT IS I THINK WHAT IS
VERY, VERY IMPORTANT AND
NEEDS TO HAPPEN FOR THESE
PEACE NEGOTIATIONS TO STICK.
>> PROFESSOR KHALID I HAD
MEDANI, AND NANCY LINDBORG,
WE THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME MUCH
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA'S TRIP
TO REASSURE ALLIES IN ASIA
KICKED OFF WITH HANDSHAKES,
SMILES, SUSHI.
AND ANGRY WORDS FROM CHINA AND
NORTH KOREA.
>> Ifill: WHEN THE PRESIDENT
LANDED IN THE EVENING, HE WAS
THE FIRST U.S. LEADER TO VISIT
JAPAN IN NEARLY TWO DECADES.
MR. OBAMA WAS GREETED BY U.S.
AMBASSADOR CAROLINE KENNEDY,
WHO JOINED HIM FOR A SUSHI
DINNER WITH JAPANESE PRIME
MINISTER SHINZO ABE.
>> HELLO.
>> Ifill: TOKYO IS THE FIRST
STOP ON A FOUR-NATION ASIAN
TOUR, DELAYED SIX MONTHS BY LAST
FALL'S GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN IN
WASHINGTON.
>> WHEN I ANNOUNCED OUR DESIRE
TO PIVOT AND FOCUS ON THE ASIA
PACIFIC REGION.
>> Ifill: THE TRIP IS ALSO THE
LATEST STEP IN A STATED POLICY
SHIFT TOWARD ASIA, AND AWAY FROM
A DECADE OF WAR IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN.
MR. OBAMA LAID OUT THAT GOAL 18
MONTHS AGO WHILE VISITING
THAILAND.
>> I THINK WE HAD NOT HAD THE
SAME KIND OF PRESENCE IN A
REGION THAT IS GROWING FASTER,
DEVELOPING FASTER THAN ANY PLACE
ELSE IN THE WORLD.
>> Ifill: BUT THAT PRESENCE AND
FOCUS HAS TAKEN A BACK SEAT TO
OTHER INTERNATIONAL CONCERNS IN
THE MIDDLE EAST, AND NOW IN
UKRAINE, AS A RESURGENT RUSSIA
FLEXES IT'S MUSCLE.
STILL, MANY IN JAPAN HOPE THE
PRESIDENT'S TRIP WILL YIELD
RESULTS.
>> ( translated ): HOPEFULLY HE
CAN IMPROVE JAPAN-CHINA-SOUTH
KOREA RELATIONS AND DO SOMETHING
ABOUT T.P.P.
>> Ifill: T.P.P. IS THE TRANS-
PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP, A MAMMOTH
TRADE DEAL BEING NEGOTIATED
AMONG THE U.S., JAPAN AND TEN
OTHER NATIONS.
IT WOULD ACCOUNT FOR 40% OF
GLOBAL TRADE.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO PLANS STOPS
IN SOUTH KOREA, MALAYSIA AND THE
PHILIPPINES.
BUT HE WILL NOT BE TRAVELING TO
CHINA, THE EMERGING DOMINANT
POWER IN THE REGION.
THERE'VE BEEN GROWING TENSIONS
BETWEEN BEIJING AND TOKYO OVER A
DISPUTED CHAIN OF ISLANDS.
THE U.S. SIDES WITH JAPAN,
AND CHINESE OFFICIALS ACCUSED
WASHINGTON TODAY OF TRYING TO
CAGE THEIR NATION.
>> ( translated ): THE U.S.
SHOULD BE DISCREET IN WORDS AND
DEEDS TO PLAY A CONSTRUCTIVE
ROLE TO CONTRIBUTE TO REGIONAL
PEACE AND STABILITY.
>> Ifill: IN SOUTH KOREA,
PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL ARRIVE IN
THE SHADOW OF NATIONAL CALAMITY,
THE SINKING OF A FERRY WITH
HUNDREDS OF SCHOOL CHILDREN
ABOARD.
THE VISIT HAS ALSO INCURRED THE
WRATH OF NORTH KOREA, AMID
REPORTS IT MAY BE PREPARING FOR
ANOTHER NUCLEAR TEST.
>> ( translated ): OBAMA'S TRIP
IS A REACTIONARY AND DANGEROUS
ONE AS IT IS AIMED AT ESCALATING
CONFRONTATION AND BRINGING DARK
CLOUDS OF A NUCLEAR ARMS RACE TO
HANG OVER THIS UNSTABLE REGION.
>> Ifill: FROM SEOUL, THE
PRESIDENT TRAVELS TO MALAYSIA,
WHERE THE GOVERNMENT IS UNDER
PRESSURE OVER THE FAILURE TO
FIND A MISSING AIRLINER AFTER
SEVEN WEEKS.
AND THE PRESIDENT'S FINAL STOP,
THE PHILIPPINES, HAS SEEN
SOMETIMES-VIOLENT PROTESTS IN
RECENT DAYS OVER PLANS FOR AN
EXPANDED U.S. MILITARY PRESENCE.
>> Ifill: FOR WHAT'S BECOME OF
THE ASIA PIVOT, I'M JOINED BY
KURT CAMPBELL, ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR EAST
ASIAN AND PACIFIC AFFAIRS DURING
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S FIRST TERM.
AND MICHAEL AUSLIN, A RESIDENT
SCHOLAR OF ASIAN STUDIES AND
DIRECTOR OF JAPAN STUDIES AT THE
AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE.
>> Ifill: SO CURT CAMPBELL
WHAT IS THE STATED AND THE
ACTUAL PURPOSE OF THIS
AT THIS POINT?
>> I THINK IT'S PRETTY
CLEAR-CUT, ACTUALLY.
THE PRESIDENT'S GOING TO
REASSURE FRIENDS AND ALLIES
IN ASIA TO UNDERSCORE THAT
THIS PIVOT, THIS REBALANCE
TO ASIA IS SIGNIFICANT.
IT'S GOING TO CONTINUE AND
THAT THERE IS A DEEP
RECOGNITION, I WOULD ARGUE A
BIPARTISAN RECOGNITION THAT
THE LION'S SHARE OF THE
HISTORY OF THE 21st
CENTURY GOING TO BE WRITTEN
IN ASIA AND WE WANT A LARGE
PART OF THAT OVERALL
PICTURE.
AND I THINK THE TRIP, IT IS
THE FIRST TIME THE PRESIDENT
HAS GONE TO ASIA WHEN IT'S
NOT PART OF A MULTILATERAL
SUMMIT SO IN EACH ONE OF
THESE COUNTRY, JAPAN, SOUTH
KOREA, MALAYS PHILIPPINES,
HE HAS TASK TO BUILD
STRONGER RELATIONSHIPS WITH
EACH OF THESE LEADERS BUT
OVERHANGING THE WHOLE SET OF
CHALLENGES IN EACH OF THE
COUNTRIES IS HOW HE MANAGES
THE RELATIONSHIP WITH CHINA.
HE'S GOT TO WALK A FINE
LINE.
HE'S GOT TO SEND A MESSAGE
OF RESOLVE AND
DETERMINATION.
BUT HE'S ALSO GOT TO MAKE
CLEAR THAT WE'RE PREPARED,
IN FACT, WE NEED TO WORK
WITH CHINA GOING FORWARD.
>> Ifill: MICHAEL AUSLIN, AS
YOU LOOK AT IT, WHAT IS
SIGNIFICANT ABOUT WHERE HE
IS GOING EVEN OF THESE
PLACES AND WHERE HE IS TO
THE GOING.
>> HE HAS TWO KEY ALLIES,
FIRST TO JAPAN AND THEN
SOUTH KOREA.
AND VERY IMPORTANTLY THESE
TWO HAVE HAD TERRIBLE
RELATIONS OVER THE PAST
YEARS.
ONE OF THE BIG THINGS HE
NEEDS TO DO IS TRY TO GET
THEM TO WORK TOGETHER.
SO I THINK THAT IS SENDING A
MESSAGE THAT HE IS DID GOING
TO THEM FIRST.
HE IS GOING TO MALAYSIA
WHERE HE HAS HAD AN
EXCELLENT FIRST TERM WORKING
WITH THE PRIME MINISTER AND
TRYING TO MAINTAIN THAT AND
BUILD ON IT.
AND OF COURSE THE
PHILIPPINES WHERE AS YOUR
REPORT NOTED, WE HAVE A VERY
TENSE, VERY LONG
RELATIONSHIP WITH THEM, BUT
ONE WE'RE ON THE CUSP,
POTENTIALLY OF MOVING INTO
NEWERA, GETTING NEW ACCESS
FOR OUR FORCES AND BASES.
>> Ifill: IS CHINA SUCH A
BIG DEAL?
CURT CAMPBELL SAYS WHY NOT
CHINA ON THIS TRIP.
>> THE PRESIDENT GOES TO
CHINA.
HE HAS BEEN TO CHINA BEFORE.
ER AND
TALK WITH ALLIES AND
PARTNERS AND FRIENDS AND
TIMES THAT YOU DON'T.
I THINK THAT WHAT YOU SEE
AMONG OUR ALLIES AND FRIENDS
IS A REAL CONCERN ABOUT THE
SUBSTANCE OF THE PIVOT.
IS  ADEQUATELY
RESOURCED?
IS IT JUST RHETORIC?
AND THE PRESIDENT HAS SAID
IT NOW FOR SEVERAL YEARS.
AND OBVIOUSLY THERE'S STILL
CONCERNS.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THAT, CURT CAMPBELL.
WHAT IS SIGNIFICANT
ABOUT-- YOU HAVE WRITTEN
THAT HE IS REFORMULATING
PRIORITIES.
WHAT IS THE EVIDENCE OF
THAT?
>> LOOK, THIS IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT YOU CAN
MEASURE IMMEDIATELY, RIGHT.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE A
SIGNIFICANT PERIOD OF TIME.
THE STEPPING UP OF OUR GAME
INVOLVES DIPLOMATIC
ENGAGEMENT.
I THINK MICHAEL RIGHTLY
POINTS OUT WHY WE ARE
VISITING THESE COUNTRIES, TO
GIVE YOU A SENSE.
THIS IS A FIRST VISIT OF A
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES TO MALAYSIA SINCE
1967 THE STREETS OF KUALA
LUMPUR WERE DIRT AN THERE
WERE WATER BUFFALOES ROAMING
AROUND.
MALAYSIA IS LIKE OUR 10th OR
11th LARGEST TRADING PARTNER,
RIGHT SO THERE ARE
DIPLOMATIC COMPONENT.
AN ECONOMIC CNE
THE PRESIDENT IS GOING TO BE
UNDERSCORING THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE TRANS-PACIFIC
PARTNERSHIP THERE ARE A
NUMBER OF PEOPLE TO PEOPLE
EXCHANGES.
WE TEND TO FOCUS ON THE
MILITARY WHICH IS UNDENIABLY
IMPORTANT, BUT FRANKLY WE
HAVE THE RESOURCES.
PART OF WHAT IS GO STOCK
NEED TO TAKE PLACE IS A
REFORMULATION OF SOME OF OUR
CAPABILITIES.
WE'RE GOING HAVE TO FOCUS
MORE ON NAVAL, AIR ASSETS
AND A LITTLE BIT LESS ON
ARMY AND GROUND FORCES.
AND THAT'S GOING TO TAKE --
TIME.
>> Ifill: TO WHAT DEGREE,
MICHAEL AUSLIN HAS THIS BEEN
OVERSHADOWED BY TENSION
ELSEWHERE, ESPECIALLY IN THE
MID EL EAST, AFGHANISTAN AND
IRAQ AND NOW WITH UKRAINE.
>> IT HAS.
IT'S ONE OF, I THINK, THE
PROBLEMS WITH THE RHETORICAL
FLOURISHES OF THE PIVOT IS
THAT REGIONAL POWERS CHOOSE
TO TURN AWAY, SO TO SPEAK
FROM OTHER AREAS AND FOCUS
ON OTHER AREA, NOT A
SUPERPOWER.
DIPLOMACY IS MENTIONE
MENTIONED-- MEASURED IN
INCHES AND-- ONE OF THE
BIGGEST ISSUES, WE COULD ALL
AGREE THAT THE EXECUTION OF
THE PIVOT HASN'T BEEN TO THE
LEVEL THAT WE ALL HAD HOPED.
SENATOR MENENDEZ RELEASED A
REPORT ON THAT LAST WEEK.
OUR TOP COMMANDERS IN THE
REGION HAVE SAID THE SAME.
BUT I THINK THE BIGGER ISSUE
IS THAT WE NEVER FULLY
ARTICULATED WHAT THE GOAL OF
THE PIVOT WAS.
IF WE NEEDED IT, WHAT WAS IT
FOR?
WAS IT TO CONTROL CHINA OR
COUNTER CHINA?
IS IT TO INSURANCE AMERICAN
POLITICAL OR MILITARY
DOMINANCE?
WE NEVER QUITE EXPLAINED
WHAT IT WAS FOR AND
THEREFORE EVERYONE COULD
READ INTO THE PIVOT WHAT
THEY WANTED AND EVERYONE
COULD BE DISAPPOINTED WHEN
IT DIDN'T LIVE UP TO THEIR
EXPECTATIONS.
>> Ifill: CURT CAMPBELL WE
KEEP USING THE WORD PIVOT
BUT YOU ARE ONE OF THE
ARCHITECTS MUCH OF THIS?
>> LOOK, ALL I CAN SAY IS IF
YOU LOOK AT THE FIRST TERM,
THE PREVIOUS 12 OR SO YEARS,
NO STRATEGIC STATEMENT, NO
DETAILED ARGUMENTS ABOUT
WHAT THE UNITED STATES WAS
ABOUT.
SEVERAL IMPORTANT ARTICLES
AND SPEECHES BY SECRETARY
CLINTON.
VERY CLEAR STATEMENT OF
PRESIDENT OBAMA WHAT WE WERE
TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH IN
ASIA.
I BELIEVE THAT THEY'VE LAID
OUT A VERY CLEAR GAME PLAN
FOR WHAT WE'RE GOING TO NEED
TO DO THAT INVOLVES THE KIND
OF DIFFICULT CHOICES WITH
RESPECT TO BUILDING A
RELATIONSHIP WITH CHINA.
>> Ifill: BUT ECONOMIC
ISSUES, DIP LO-- DIPLOMATIC
ISSUES.
>> EVERYTHING, LOOK, 50% OF
THE WORLD'S ECONOMY NOW IS
FOCUSED IN ASIA.
WE CANNOT BE A PROSPEROUS
NATION UNLESS WE STEP UP OUR
GAME ECONOMICALLY.
WE ARE GOING HAVE TO EXPORT
MORE TO THE LARGEST GROWING
MIDDLE CLASSES IN THE WORLD.
THERE'S GOING TO BE MORE
INVESTMENT FROM ASIA NOT
UNITED STATES.
AND I THINK AS MICHAEL
INDICATED, THERE ARE HUGE
SECURITY CHALLENGES IN ASIA.
AND WE HAVE KEPT THE PEACE
THERE FOR DECADES.
OUR ROLE IS STILL IMPORTANT.
SO I THINK OUR ROLE IS
VITAL.
IF ANYTHING, IT'S GOING TO
GO UP OVER TIME.
AND I THINK THERE'S A BROAD
RECOGNITION THAT THIS WILL
NOT TAKE, YOU KNOW, A COUPLE
OF YEARS T WILL TAKE A
DECADE OR MORE TO STEP UP
OUR GAME SUBSTANTIALLY.
>> BUT MICHAEL AUSLIN, OUR
PARTNERS IN THIS EFFORT, AT
THIS POINT HALFWAY THROUGH
THE SECOND TERM, ALMOST, DO
THEY TRUST TO US EXECUTE
THIS PIVOT IN A WAY THAT
WILL BENEFIT THEM AS WELL AS
THE-- THE NATION'S DIRECTLY
INVOLVED IN.
>> I THINK AS CURT SAID IT'S
GOING TO TAKE A LONG TIME.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY THE WATERS
ARE SHIFTING IN ASIA AS WE
ARE MOVING MORE OF OUR FOCUS
THERE.
YOU KNOW, ADMIRAL LOCKLEAR,
OF PACIFIC COMMAND TESTIFIED
BEFORE CONGRESS LAST MONTH
THAT THE BALANCE OF POWER IN
ASIA IS SHIFTING AGAINST US
AND TOWARDS THE CHINESE THAT
IS WHAT OUR ALLIES ARE
LOOKING AT RIGHT NOW IT IS
ANOTHER ISSUE, I THINK OF
FORM VERSUS FUNCTION.
WE CAN HAVE ALL THE FORMS OF
MOVING 60% OF THE NAVY TO
ASIA.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT FOR.
WE HAVEN'T FULLY ARTICULATED
WHY WE'RE THERE.
AND ONE OF THE KEY ISSUES
WHICH WE MENTIONED HERE IN
THE REPORT, THE TERRITORIAL
DISPUTES.
THAT'S WHAT OUR ASIAN
FRIENDS AND ALLIES CONCERN
THEMSELVES WITH.
THAT IS WHAT THEY CARE
ABOUT.
FANNED WE DON'T GET INVOLVED
OR SHOW THAT WE ARE GETTING
MORE INVOLVED, THEN TO THEM
THE PIVOT MEANS NOTHING.
NOW THE PRESIDENT HAD A VERY
STRONG STATEMENT IN THE
JAPANE NEWSPAPER YESTERDAY
WHERE HE STATED THAT IT
COMES UNDER ARTICLE 5.
AND THAT SHOULD BEGIN MOVING
THE NEEDLE ON THEIR CONCERN.
BUT THE FACT IS THEY HAVE
WATCHED THIS FOR A WHILE.
THE PHILIPPINE, VIETNAMESE,
EVERYONE HAS SEEN US TALK
ABOUT WHAT WE'RE GOING DO
BUT THEEALING WITH ITS
DAILY EFFECTS OF WHAT CHINA
IS DOGS AND WAITING FOR TO
US GET INVOLVED.
>> CAN I JUST --
>> ONE FINAL, BRIEFLY, LOOK,
ONE NARROW MEEMENT ON
MILITARY POWER, ABSOLUTELY,
POWER SHIFTING MORE TOWARDS
CHINA BUT WE HAVE MANY OTHER
ASSETS IN ASIA.
A LOT OF FRIENDS.
I'LL TRADE, I'LL TAKE OUR
FRIENDS, OUR STRUCTURE OF
ENGAGEMENT OVER THE ONE
CLOSE FRIEND THAT CHINA HAS
WHICH IS NORTH KOREA.
>> CURT CAMPBELL, MICHAEL
AUSLIN, THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN, IT WAS
GREAT.
VI
>> Woodruff: NOW, WHO SHOULD PAY
WHEN DRUGS ARE VERY EFFECTIVE,
BUT EXTREMELY EXPENSIVE?
THAT'S AN IMPORTANT QUESTION FOR
THE U.S. HNEW TREATMENTS COME AD
IT'S A MATTER OF REAL CONCERN
OVER A NEW DRUG THAT HAS A 90%
TO 100% CHANCE OF CURING THE
HEPATITIS-C VIRUS.
ITS MANUFACTURER ANNOUNCED
RECORD SALES YESTERDAY OF MORE
THAN TWO BILLION DOLLARS IN JUST
THE FIRST QUARTER OF THE YEAR.
PROFITS, COVERAGE AND COSTS ARE
ALL AT ISSUE, AS HARI
SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
>> SHE KNOWS HOW FRAGILE
LIFE CAN BE.
IN 2005 BLOWSLY WAS
DIAGNOSED WITH HELP LE
CAN DESTROY THE BODY'S THAT
LIVER.
>> I WENT FROM STAGE 1 TO
STAGE 4, DECOMPOSED LIVER
VERY QUICKLY.
>> Reporter: NEWS OF A RAPIDLY
DECLINING HEALTH WAS
DEVASTATING FOR THE
46-YEAR-OLD MOTHER OF TWO.
>> YOU FALL INTO A
DEPRESSION WHEN YOU'RE
DIAGNOSED WITH HELP C.
YOUR OWN MORTALITY RATE HITS
YOU.
>> THAT'S A PRETTY GOOD
RESPONSE.
>> THIS FALL AFTER NINE
YEARS OF BATTLING THE VIRUS
KIM BOSLEY WAS ACCEPT NOD A
TREATMENT TRIAL WITH A NEW
DRUG CALLED SOLVADI.
>> KIM, WE'LL CHECK YOUR
LABS HERE.
>> ALMOST IMMEDIATELY AFTER
TAKING SOLVALDI THE
HEPATITIS C VIRUS
DISAPPEARED.
>> TO THE DETECT, NOT
DETECTED, TO THE DETECTED.
>> BOSLEY'S DOCTOR IS AN
EXPERT ON THE HEPATITIS C
VIRUS.
HE SAYS RESULTS WITH
SOLVALDI ARE REMARKABLE.
>> YOU FEEL LIKE YOU CAN DO
WHAT YOU WANTED TO DO ON
THIS TREATMENT.
>> YES.
>> A HELPTOLOGIST AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO
HOSPITAL, HE HAS TREATED
SOME 200 PATIENTS WITH THE
NEW DRUG.
>> KIM'S RESPONSE IS
TYPICAL.
HER VIRAL LOAD WAS IN THE
MILLIONS.
WITHIN A WEEK OR TWO,
UNDETECTABLE.
THAT IS WHAT WE'RE SEEING IN
ALMOST ALL THE PATIENTS
WE'RE TREATING TODAY.
IT'S REALLY QUITE
EXTRAORDINARY.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, ACROSS
THE UNITED STATES HEPATITIS
C PATIENTS ARE EXPERIENCING
THE SAME DRAMATIC RESULTS.
SO MUCH SO THAT DR. OVERSON
CAUSE THE NEW DRUG
MANUFACTURED BY GILEAD
SCIENTIST A GAME CHANGER.
>> WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
CHRONIC DISEASE ANY MORE.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT GETTING
RID OF THE INFECTION
COMPLETELY.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A
COMPLETE CURE RATE.
>> Reporter: AND THAT IS
WELCOME NEWS FOR THE 3
MILLION AMERICANS
INFECTIONED WITH THE
HEPATITIS VIRUS.
25% OF WHOM ARE PROJECTED TO
DIE FROM IT.
EVEN BETTER NEWS, IN
DECEMBER THE FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION APPROVED
SOLVALDI BUT A SPECTACULAR
AS IT APPEARS TO BE, SO TOORICE.
EACH PILL IS $1,000.
AND OF TYPICAL TREATMENT OF
120 DAY, THE DRUG'S
EXTRAORDINARY COST HAS
RAISED CONCERNS.
>> THE NEW DEVELOPMENT IS
SIMULTANEOUSLY VERY EXCITING
IN TERMS OF ITS EFFICACY.
BUT POTENTIALLY VERY, VERY
FRIGHTENING IN TERMS OF ITS
COST.
BECAUSE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
A NEXUS OF A DRUG THAT IS ON
THE FACE OF IT, VERY
EXPENSIVE.
>> MATT HEADS THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF MEDICAID
DIRECTORS.
HE SAYS STATES ARE SKRANLING
TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO PAY FOR
IT WITH GOVERNMENT-FUNDED
INSURANCE.
PARTICULARLY WHEN EXISTING
DRUGS ARE 50 TO 70%
EFFECTIVE.
>> MEDICAID IS ACTUALLY KIND
OF USED TO DEALING WITH
PHARMACEUTICAL TREATMENTS
THAT ARE VERY EXPENSIVE.
BUT FOR SMALL NUMBERS OFE.
WITH HEPATITIS C, WE KNOW
THERE ARE AT LEAST 3 MILLION
PEOPLE AND POTENTIALLY AS
MANY AS 5 MILLION PEOPLE IN
THIS COUNTRY WHO HAVE
HEPATITIS C SO WHEN YOU
MULTIPLY THOSE TWO, YOU ARE
REALLY LOOKING AT A
GAME-CHANGE NEVER TERMS OF
COST.
>> ONE A DAY OF THAT ONE.
>> KIM BOSLEY'S TREATMENTS
ARE FREE BECAUSE SHE'S PART
OF THE STUDY FOR THOSE WITH
ADVANCED LIVER DISEASE.
AND WHILE SHE AGREES THE
DRUG'S PRICE TAG IS HIGH,
SHE SAYS THE COMBINATION OF
DRUGS SHE USED BEFORE
SOLVALDI INTERFERON WERE
EXTREMELY ROUGH.
>> THERE IS NO COMPARISON.
>> HER PREVIOUS DRUG
TREATMENT, SHE SAYS, CAUSED
EXHAUSTION, DEPRESSION AND
HAIR LOSS.
>> IT IS A VERY HARSH
REGIMEN.
VERY DEBILITATING.
>> IN FACT, DR. OVERSON SAID
THE EXISTING DRUG TREATMENTS
ARE SO TOUGH ON HIS PATIENT
APPROXIMATES MANY HEPATITIS
C SUFFERERS AVOID THEM ALL
TOGETHER.
>> MOST PATIENTS DON'T EVEN
WANT THE TREATMENTS.
PEOPLE WOULDN'T EVEN COME
FOR TREATMENT.
THEY WOULDN'T GET THEIR
HEPATITIS C ADDRESSED.
>> AND BEYOND THE PHYSICAL
COSTS, HE SAYS THERE IS A
PRICE FOR IN THE CURING THE
VIRUS.
>> IT'S ONE OF THE COSTLIEST
DISEASES WHEN YOU GET TO THE
END STAGES WHERE PEOPLE
START TO HAVE COMPLICATIONS
OF CIRRHOSIS.
>> THAT POINT IS ECHOED BY
JOHN McHUTCHINSON, EXECUTIVE
VICE PRESIDENT AT GILEAD
SCIENCES.
>> THE COST OF CARING FOR
PATIENTS WITH HEPATITIS C
ARE NOT ALL UP FRONT.
SO WHILE IT MIGHT BE
EXPENSIVE TO TREAT SOMEBODY
UP FRONT NOW, BY CURING
SOMEBODY, YOU ARE PREVENTING
THE COSTS OF CARE OF THAT
PATIENT LATER ON.
SO AS THEIR DISEASE
PROGRESSES OVER TIME, THE
COST OF LIVER TRANSPLANT,
THE COST OF CARING FOR
SOMEBODY WITH LIVER CANCER,
SO IF YOU CAN TREAT MORE
PEOPLE, AND SPEND THOSE
DOLLARS UP FRONT TO CURE
THOSE PEOPLE, IN THE
LONG-TERM, AND OVER THE
LONG-TERM HORIZON WILL YOU
SAVE THE COSTS TO THE
HEALTH-CARE SYSTEM.
>> IF YOU ARE ONE OF THE
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE WITH
HEPATITIS C, YOU HAVEN'T
BEEN FORGOTTEN.
>> Reporter: BUT WHILE
GILEAD CALLS THE DRUG A CURE
IT IS NOT A VACCINE.
HEPATITIS C WHICH IS
TRANSMITTED THROUGH BLOOD
CAN BE CONTRACTED MORE THAN
ONCE.
THE MOST COMMON WAY TO GET
THE VIRUS IS THROUGH IV DRUG
USE.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS TO KEEP
IN MIND WITH SOVALDI IS THIS
IS NOT AN IMMUNIZATION, THIS
DOES NOT MAKE SOMEONE
HEPATITIS FREE FOREVER.
AND IF YOU GOT HEPATITIS C
BECAUSE OF CERTAIN RISKY
BEHAVIORS AND YOU GO AND YOU
GET, IN EFFECT, CURED.
THERE IS NOTHING TO PREVENT
FROM YOU GETTING AGAIN IF
YOU RELAPSE BACK INTO THOSE
SAME BEHAVIORS.
>> KIM BOSLEY CONTRACTED THE
VIRUS FROM A BLOOD
TRANSFUSION AT HER BIRTH.
BOSLEY WAS THE FIRST BABY
BORN TO A MOTHER WHO HAD
UNDERGONE A KIDNEY
TRANSPLANT.
SHE WAS FEATURED IN GOOD
HOUSEKEEPING MAGAZINE AS A
MIRACLE BABY.
DURING THE BIRTH KIM'S
MOTHER RECEIVED A
TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD
INFECTED WITH HEPATITIS C.
BUT NEITHER KNEW THEY HAD
THE VIRUS UNTIL GETTING SICK
LATER IN LIFE.
BOSLEY'S MOTHER ENDED UP
DYING FROM THE CONDITION,
SOMETHING THAT MAKES KIM'S
OWN CONDITION EVEN TOUGHER.
>> SEEING MY MOM SUFFER
THROUGH THE LATTER PART OF
HER STAGES, IT REALLY TOOK A
LOT OUT OF ME TO THE POINT
WHERE I FINALLY HAD TO, YOU
KNOW THIS IS NOT HOW MOM OR
I WANT TO LIVE, YOU KNOW, I
WANT TO FIGHT.
I WANT TO FI A CURE.
>> AS NEW SOPHISTICATED
DRUGS TO TREAT ALL KINDS OF
CONDITIONS ENTER THE MARKET,
MATT SAYS THE QUESTION OF
COSTS WILL LIKELY ARISE
AGAIN.
>> IT'S NOT A SOVALDI
QUESTION PER SE, BECAUSE
THIS REALLY IS THE TIP OF
THE ICEBERG.
THERE ARE SO MANY OTHER
DRUGS THAT HAVE THE
POTENTIAL OF BRINGING ON ONE
HAND, YOU KNOW, INCREDIBLE
IMPROVEMENTS IN HUMAN LIFE
AND HEALTH AND WELL-BEING,
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS.
>> HE WOULD LIKE TO SEE A
NATIONAL DIALOGUE ABOUT WHAT
INSURERS SHOULD COVER.
>> I THINK IT IS CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT THAT WE START
HAVING THAT CONVERSATION
ABOUT HOW DO WE VALUE
HEALTH.
WHAT PRICE HEALTH, AND WHAT
PRICE PHARMACEUTICALS?
I THINK THIS IS AN IMPORTANT
CONVERSATION WE NEED TO
HAVE.
>> FOR HER PART KIM BOSLEY
HAS STARTED A FOUNDATION TO
HELP OFFSET DRUG COST FORCE
OTHER HEPATITIS PATIENTS.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, READ ABOUT HOW
FREE SAMPLES CAN INFLUENCE WHAT
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE TO THEIR
PATIENTS.
THAT'S ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
>> Woodruff: MOST OF THE TIME
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THE BOOM IN
OIL PRODUCTION IN THE U.S., WE
FOCUS ON COSTS AND THE
ENVIRONMENT.
BUT THE BOOM HAS ALSO LED TO A
MAJOR RISE IN HOW MUCH OIL IS
BEING MOVED AROUND THE COUNTRY
BY RAIL.
IN FACT, THAT AMOUNT HAS
QUADRUPLED SINCE 2005, AND THAT
IS LEADING TO GROWING WORRIES
OVER SAFETY RISKS.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE BIGGEST
SAFETY CONCERNS:
EXPLOSIVE TRAIN DERAILMENTS IN
THE U.S. AND CANADA.
THE MOST DEADLY CAME IN JULY OF
LAST YEAR, WHEN AN UNMANNED RUN-
AWAY TRAIN CARRYING CRUDE OIL
BARRELED OFF THE RAILS IN A
SMALL TOWN IN QUEBEC.
47 PEOPLE DIED IN THE EXPLOSION
AND FIRE.
THE OIL ON THAT TRAIN WAS COMING
FROM THE BAKKEN OIL FIELDS IN
NORTH DAKOTA, A SITE FOR MUCH OF
THE OIL BOOM SINCE 2006,
FACILITATED BY A FORM OF
EXTRACTION KNOWN AS HYDROLIC
FRACTURING.
TWO-THIRDS OF THE OIL PRODUCED
IN THE BAKKEN FORMATION TODAY IS
SHIPPED BY RAIL, AS IS
ROUGHLY 10% OF ALL U.S. OIL
OUTPUT.
LAST DECEMBER, A B.N.S.F. TRAIN
IN CASSELTON, NORTH DAKOTA,
STRUCK ANOTHER TRAIN, IGNITING
10 CARS AND SPILLING 400,000
GALLONS OF CRUDE OIL.
ETHANOL, WHICH IS ALSO
INCREASINGLY CARRIED BY RAIL,
WAS THE CARGO IN A 2009 TRAIN
DERAILMENT IN CHERRY VALLEY,
ILLINOIS.
ONE PERSON WAS KILLED IN THAT
ACCIDENT.
NOW, THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD IS WORKING WITH
OTHER AGENCIES ON NEW STEPS TO
IMPROVE THE SAFETY OF THE RAIL
SHIPMENTS.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE RECORD,
B.N.S.F. RAILWAY IS A NEWSHOUR
UNDERWRITER.
>> ANNOUNCED THEY WILL PHASE
OUT OLDER RAIL CARS LIKE THE
ONES INVOLVED IN THE QUEBEC
ACCIDENT BY MAY 2017.
BETWEEN 65 AND 80-- 80,000
OF THEM ARE CARRYING
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDES IN NORTH
AMERICA.
THIS WEEK THE U.S. IN
ADDITION TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD HAS BEEN
MEETING ON THESE VERY
ISSUES.
AND I'M JOINED NOW BY ITS
CHAIRMAN DEBORAH HERSMAN,
WELCOME TO THE NEWSHOUR.
>> HELLO.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE A
CONSENSUS ON WHY THERE HAVE
BEEN AS MANY ACCIDENTS AS
THERE HAVE BEEN WITH
EXPLOSIONS AND THE KIND OF
MAYHEM WE'VE SEEN?
>> SO I THINK THE IMPORTANT
THING TO UNDERSTAND IS WE
CAN PREVENT THESE ACCIDENTS.
SO WE'VE GOT TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO PREVENT THEM AND THAT
MEANS KEEPING THE TRAINS
FROM DERAIL IN THE FIRST
PLACE OR KEEPING THEM FROM
HAVING COLLISIONS SO WE'VE
GOT TO WORK ON THAT.
MOST OF THESE EVENTS ARE
CAUSED BY EITHER HUMAN
FAILURE, HUMAN FACTORS
ISSUES OR TRACK DEFECTS.
SO WE'VE GOT TO FIX THOSE
TWO ISSUES.
AND THEN THE SECOND PIECE OF
IT IS THE MITIGATION.
THE TANK CARS AND MAKING
THOSE TANK CARS MORE
CRASH-WORTHY IF YOU DO HAVE
AN ACCIDENT THE FINAL PIECE
OF IT IS THE RESPONSE
BECAUSE NO COMMUNITIES IS
PREPARED FOR A WORSE CASE
SCENARIO IF YOU LOSE THE
ENTIRE CONTENTS OF ONE OF
THESE UNIT TRAINS.
>> Woodruff: SO IN TERMS OF
MAKING THE CARS, MAKING THIS
TRANSPORT SAFER, WHAT NEEDS
TO BE DONE THAT ISN'T BEING
DONE RIGHT NOW?
>> I THINK FOCUSING ON THE
PREVENTION, KEEPING THE
TRAINS FROM DERAILING IN THE
FIRST PLACE OR THEIR
COLLISIONS FROM HAPPENING,
THAT MEANS THE INDUSTRY HAS
TO DO A NUMBER OF THINGS.
DO BETTER INSPECTIONS OF THE
TRACK.
MAKE SURE THAT THOSE TRAINS
DON'T COLLIDE, THAT YOUR
WORKERS AREN'T FAT AGOED,
THAT THEY AREN'T TIRED.
WEREVE TE DIDN'TS IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
SO WHEN IT COMES TO THE TANK
CARS.
>> LET ME STOP YOU THERE.
IS THAT HAPPENING NOW?
>> WELL, WE DO HAVE SOME
VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS FROM SO
RAILROADS ABOUT REDUCING
TRAIN SPEEDS.
THAT WILL REDUCE SOME OF THE
RISK, IF THERE IS A
COLLISION OR AN ACCIDENT.
AND DOING MORE FREQUENT
INSPECTIONS OF THE RAIL.
THESE ARE GOOD THINGS THAT
PEOPLE AGREE TO DO
VOLUNTARILY.
BUT MORE NEEDS TO BE DONE
BECAUSE WE REALLY NEED TO
GET TO ZERO ACCIDENTS, NOT
JUST FEWER ACCIDENTS BUT
ZERO ACCIDENTS.
WHEN IT COMES TO THE TANK
CARS, THERE'S A LOT OF
CONVERSATION NOW ABOUT
IMPROVING THE CRASH
WORTHINESS AND THE INTEGRITY
OF THE CARS THAT ARE OUT
THERE.
AND YOU TALKED ABOUT IT,
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF THEM.
>> AND SO SHOULD THE U.S. DO
WHAT THE CANADIAN RIG LATERS
HAVE JUST TODAY ANNOUNCED
THEY'RE GOING TO DO, AND
THAT IS REQUIRE THAT THE
OLDER CARS BE PHASED OUT?
>> THAT'S IN FACT WHAT THE
NTSB RECOMMENDED SEVERAL
YEARS AGO.
YOU SHOULDED EARLIER THE
CHEREE VALLEY ACCIDENT
INVOLVING THE ETHANOL TRAIN.
WE SAID THEY EITHER NEED TO
RETROFIT OR PHASE OUT THESE
DO T-1 11 TANK CARS
CONTRARIEE-- CARRYING CRUDE
OR ETHANOL.
>> Woodruff: SO IT HAS
ALREADY BEEN RECOMMENDED.
HAS IT HAPPENED?
>> IT HAS NOT HAPPENED.
WE CERTAINLY APPLAUD THE
CANADIANS FOR TAKING SWIFT
ACTION.
AND TODAY WE REALLY
CHALLENGE THE U.S. REGULATORS
TO FOLLOW SUIT, TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH
IMPROVEMENT.
>> Woodruff: SO WHERE IS THE
HOLDUP?
THE REPORTING I HAVE BEEN
READING TODAY IS THAT THE
RAILROAD INDUSTRY IS SAYING
THESE CARS, AMONG OTHER
THINGS THEY ARE SAYING THESE
CARS NEED TO BE UPGRADED.
AND THEY'RE LOOKING TO THE
OIL INDUSTRY, THE OIL
COMPANIES TO DO THAT
UPGRADING.
THE OIL COMPANIES ARE
PUSHING BACK SAYING WAIT A
MINUTE WHERE IS THE
EVIDENCE.
HOW DO YOU READ ALL OF THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK CLEARLY
THERE ARE A LOT OF DIFFERENT
INTERESTS HERE.
WE HEARD FROM THE PETROLEUM
INDUSTRY.
WE ALSO HEARD FROM THE RAIL
INDUSTRY, AND WE HEARD FROM
THE PEOPLE WHO MANUFACTURE
AND OWN THE TANK CARS.
EVERYBODY HAS GOT TO WORK
TOGETHER TO TRY TO SOLVE
THIS PROBLEM.
IT'S TO THE GOING TO GO AWAY
IF WE DON'T INVEST IN BETTER
TANK CARS AND MAKE SURE WE
INVEST IN PREVENTING THOSE
ACCIDENTS IN THE FIRST
PLACE.
>> Woodruff: DOES THE NTSB
YOUR AGENCY HAVE THE CLOUD
TO MAKE THE THINGS HAPPEN
THAT NEED TO HAPPEN?
>> WE INVESTIGATE THE
ACCIDENTS AND WE MAKE
RECOMMENDATIONS.
IT'S UP TO OTHER PEOPLE TO
IMPLEMENT OUR
RECOMMENDATIONS.
THESE RECOMMENDATIONS HAVE
BEEN ON THE BOOKS FOR
SEVERAL YEARS.
I THINK WE'RE VERY
DISAPPOINTED THAT THEY
HAVEN'T MOVED FASTER.
BUT I WILL TELL YOU THIS
ISSUE IS GETTING A LOT OF
ATTENTION NOW THAT WE HAVE
HAD SOME ACCIDENTS HERE ON
THIS SIDE OF THE BORDER.
WE'VE SEEN WHAT HAPPENED IN
QUEBEC.
I THINK A LOT OF POLITICIANS
AND OTHERS ARE PAYING
ATTENTION.
AN THERE'S PRESSURE ON THE
INDUSTRY AND THE REGULATORS
TO MAKE A CHANGE.
>> Woodruff: I ASSUME THAT'S
PART OF THE REASON YOU'RE
HERE TONIGHT TO TALK ABOUT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: BUT I WAS ALSO
READING TODAY, DEBORAH
HERSMAN THAT AMONG OTHER
THINGS THE OIL INDUSTRY IS
BEING CRITICIZED FOR NOT
BEING TRANSPARENT ENOUGH
ABOUT THE CARGO IT CARRIES,
HOW IT CARRIES IT, IT'S OWN
SAFETY, RULES AND
REGULATIONS, HELP US
UNDERSTAND THAT A LITTLE
BETTER.
>> I THINK THE IMPORTANT
THING TO UNDERSTAND HERE IS
THIS BOOM SAY REALLY GOOD
THING WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
ENERGY INNOCENCE FOR THE
UNITED STATES IT A GOOD
THING FOR U.S. JOBS, THERE
IS A LOT OF GOOD HERE BUT
YOU HAVE TO DO THE WORK THAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE TO PROTECT
THE SAFETY OF THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE WORKING ALONG THE LINE,
PEOPLE WHO LIVE ALONG THE
LINES AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
AND UNFORTUNATELY THEY GOT
WAY AHEAD WITH THE BUSINESS
CASE AND THE SAFETY
REGULATIONS WERE NOT THERE
KEEPING TRACK.
>> YOU MEAN THE OIL INDUSTRY
GOT WAY AHEAD.
>> THE OIL INDUSTRY, THEY
FOUND THIS OIL AND THEY WERE
EXTRACTING IT.
THE RAIL INDUSTRY, THESE
UNIT TRAINS, 100 CAR TRAINS
OF CRUDE OIL OR ETHANOL,
THEY ARE REALLY ESSENTIALLY
MOVING PIPELINES.
>> AND DO YOU SEE PRODUCTIVE
CONVERSATIONS UNDER WAY NOW?
DO YOU BELIEVE THAT THIS
DISCUSSION IS MOVING IN A
POSITIVE DIRECTION OR IS IT
STUCK AT THIS POINT?
>> WELL, I THINK WE HEARD
TODAY, WE HAD THOSE
INDUSTRIES REPRESENTING.
AND I WILL TELL YOU THEY HAD
VERY DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE.
BUT I THINK AT SOME POINT
YOU'RE GOING HAVE TO HAVE
SOME ADULT SUPERVISION AND
THAT IS GOING TO NEED TO
COME FROM THE REGULATE TORE
STEP IN AND SAY WE'VE HAD
ENOUGH ACCIDENTS, WE'VE HAD
ENOUGH WORK ON TRYING TO GET
TO A CONSCIENTIOUS-- CONSENSUS
THIS IS WHAT THE STANDARD
NEEDS TO BE.
AND THAT IS WHAT THE
CANADIANS ARE BEGINNING TO
DO RIGHT NOW.
AND I THINK WE HAVE GOT ON
THIS SIDE OF THE BOARD TORE
STEP UP TO THE PLATE OR
WE'RE GOING HAVE TWO LEVELS
OF SAFETY.
YOU ARE GEEING HAVE ON ONE
SIDE OF THE BORDER CERTAIN
PROVISIONS AND THEN ON THE
U.S. SIDE IT WON'T BE THE
SAME.
>> DEBORAH HERSMAN IS THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD,
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: YESTERDAY'S SUPREME
COURT DECISION TO UPHOLD A
MICHIGAN STATE BAN ON
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION WAS ONLY THE
LATEST SETBACK FOR THOSE WHO
ARGUE RACIAL PREFERENCES ARE THE
BEST WAY TO INCREASE DIVERSITY
ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES.
AT LEAST SEVEN OTHER STATES HAVE
ENACTED SIMILAR BANS.
THE NEW YORK TIMES, USING
INFORMATION COMPILED IN PART BY
THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR
EDUCATION STATISTICS, LOOKED AT
FIVE OF THOSE STATES AND FOUND
ENROLLMENT AT FLAGSHIP SCHOOLS
IMMEDIATELY FELL OVERALL FOR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND LATINO
STUDENTS.
SOME CAMPUSES HAVE FOUND OTHER
WAYS TO ACHIEVE THE SAME GOALS,
BUT WILL THESE TRENDS CONTINUE?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO TWO EXPERTS
ON THE MATTER:
DENNIS PARKER, DIRECTOR OF THE
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION'S
RACIAL JUSTICE PROGRAM.
AND ROGER CLEGG, PRESIDENT AND
GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE CENTER
FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
DOES THIS ISSUE THAT WE SAW
YESTERDAY AT THE STREAM
COURT, DENNIS PARKER MEAN
THAT THE USE OF AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION IS THE MEANS TO
ACHIEVE DIVERSITY IN COLLEGE
CAMPUSES IS DONE, OVER?
>> NO, THE SUPREME COURT IS
CLEARLY SAID THAT RACE CAN
BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN A
MEASURED WAY.
AND THAT IT CAN BE PERFECTLY
CONSTITUTIONAL.
SO THOSE CASES UPHOLDING THE
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAMS
IN MICHIGAN, FOR EXAMPLE,
STILL STAND.
IT REALLY ONLY DEALS WITH
THOSE STATES THAT HAVE
PASSED THESE TYPES OF
INITIATIVESIDE DON'T THE
FLOODGATES OPEN AFTER
YESTERDAY'S RULING FOR
STATES THAT DOT SAME.
>> WE'RE HOPEFUL THE STATES
WON'T DO THAT, THAT THEY
WILL LOOK AT THE EXPERIENCES
IN THE STATES THAT HAVE
THESE INITIATIVES, RECOGNIZE
THAT THE EFFECTS ARE HARMFUL
EFFECTS, HURT WHOLE CLASSES
OF PEOPLE IN THE STATES.
AND WON'T CHOOSE TO GO DOWN
THE SAME PATH THAT MICHIGAN
AND THE OTHER STATES WENT
DOWN.
>> Ifill: ROGER CLEGG SDRK
ITS SUPREME COURT SHUT A
DOOR OR OPEN ANOTHER ONE.
>> THE SUPREME COURT DID THE
RIGHT THING.
THE SUPREME COURT SAID THAT
IT'S OKAY FOR PEOPLE TO PASS
LAWS THAT SAY THAT THE
GOVERNMENT CAN'T
DISCRIMINATION-- DISCRIMINATE
ON THE BASIS OF RACE, THAT'S
A GOOD THING.
AND I HOPE THAT MORE STATES
WILL DO THAT.
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD LOSE
SIGHT OF THE FACT WITH ALL
THE TALK ABOUT DIVERSITIES
AND EDUCATIONAL BENEFITS AND
ALL THAT, WHAT IS AT ISSUE
HERE IS WHETHER THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE
TREATING AMERICANS DIFFERENTLY
ON THE BASIS OF SKIN COLOR
AND WHAT COUNTRY THEIR
ANCESTORS CAME FROM.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU
YOUR QUESTION THAT JUSTICE
SO IT ISOMAYER RAISED IN HER
DISSENT, A SHARP DESCENT
YESTERDAY, THAT WE DIDN'T
RICH RACE A WAKES, THAT IF
WILL ALWAYS BE CENTRAL TO
THESE KINDS OF
CONVERSATIONS.
WHAT IS YOUR RESPONSE TO
THAT?
>> WELL, I DON'T DISAGREE
WITH THAT AT ALL BUT I DON'T
THINK THAT THE RIGHT WAY TO
ADDRESS RACE IS THROUGH MORE
RACIAL DISCRIMINATION.
I AM ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
GOVERNMENT STOPPING RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION OF THE
OLD-FASHIONED POLITICALLY
INCORRECT KIND.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THE
SOLUTION IS TO SUBSTITUTE
POLITICALLY CORRECT RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION FOR IT.
I'M ALSO ALL IN FAVOR THE
GOVERNMENT DOING THINGS TO
HELP DISADVANTAGED PEOPLE
BUT IT SHOULD BE
DISADVANTAGED PEOPLE OF ALL
RACIAL AN ETHNIC GROUPS.
RACE SHOULD NOT BE USED AS A
PROXY FOR DISADVANTAGE.
>> Ifill: DENNIS.
>> AND A AGREE THAT THERE
SHOULD BE EQUALITY.
BUT THE PROBLEM WITH THIS
PROPOSITION IS IT TAKES
EQUALITY OFF THE TABLE IT
SAYS IF YOU ARE AN APPLICANT
TO A SCHOOL IN MICHIGAN YOU
CAN URGE THEM TO ACCEPT YOU
FOR ANY REASON SUCH AS YOUR
GRANDPARENT GAVE MONEY TO
THE SCHOOL, YOUR FATHER
TO THE SCHOOL, YOU PLAYED
OBOE.
THE ONE THING YOU CAN'T SAY
IS THAT I BELIEVE THAT MY
RACE IS SIGNIFICANT AND
REFLECTS SOMETHING ABOUT MY
PERSONALITY.
PERHAPS IT SHOWS ISSUES THAT
I'VE OVERCOME THAT ARE RACE
MEAN A WHITE
STUDENT WHO LIVES IN A BLACK
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT GOT A
LEADERSHIP POSITION IN THEIR
HIGH SCHOOL SAID THAT HE
LEARNED SOMETHING AS A
RESULT OF THAT.
>> Ifill: WHY WOULDN'T A
RACE-- NEUTRAL APPROACH WORK
TO ACCOMPLISH THE SAME GOAL?
>> BECAUSE IT PRESENTS FROM
YOU EVER MAKING THAT
ARGUMENT.
AND IN ORDER TO MAKE IT
WOULD YOU HAVE TO CHANGE THE
MICHIGAN CONSTITUTION.
IT PLACES A BURDEN ON YOU
THAT OTHER PEOPLE DON'T
HAVE.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT IS
TRUE.
I THINK THAT A SITUATION
WHERE SOMEBODY HAD A STORY
TO TELL LIKE DENNISU
OUTLINED COULD BE TOLD.
WHAT IS PREVENTED IS THE
STATE SAYING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO GIVE PEOPLE
PREFERENCES BECAUSE OF THEIR
SKIN COLOR OR BECAUSE OF
WHAT COUNTRY THEIR ANCESTORS
THAT'S WHAT IS GOING ON,
UNFORTUNATELY, AT A LOT OF
SCHOOLS THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY.
AND I HOPE THAT MORE STATES
WILL PASS LAWS LIKE THE LAW
THAT MICHIGAN HAS.
>> Ifill: BUT IS THERE VALUE
IN THE GOAL, THE GOAL WHICH
IS TO CREATE A DIFFERENT
SOCIAL MIX, TO CREATE A
DIFFERENT LEVEL OF AGO DEM
ACHE CHIEVEMENT FOR
DISADVANTAGED INDIVIDUALS?
IS THERE-- IS THIS THE WAY
THE GOAL WAS BEING ACHIEVED
IS THE PROBLEM?
>> I THINK THAT ANY GOAL
STATED IN TERMS OF DIVERSE
SIT NOT WORTH THE PRICE OF
RACIAL DISCRIMINATION.
AND I THINK THAT THE KIND OF
DIVERSITY THAT MATTERS IS
NOT DIE VIRTS OF SUPERFICIAL
CHARACTERISTICS LIKE SKIN
COLOR, IT'S DIVERSITY,
BACKGROUNDS AND EXPERIENCES
AND PERSPECTIVES.
AND YOU CAN GET THAT KIND OF
DIE VERSUSITY WITHOUT USING
RACE AS A PROXY FOR HOW
PEOPLE THINK AND WHAT KIND
OF BACKGROUNDS THEY COME
FROM.
MOST OF THE AFRICAN-AMERICANS
WHO ARE GIVEN PREFERENCES TO
THE MORE SELECTIVE SCHOOLS,
86%, IN FACT, COME FROM
MIDDLE CLASS OR UPPER-CLASS
BACKGROUNDS.
SO YOU'RE NOT REALLY
ACCOMPLISHING ANY KIND OF
REAL SOCIOECONOMIC DIVERSITY
BY USING RACE AS A PROXY
FOR --
>> LET'S MAKE THE ARGUMENT
DENNIS PARKER Y NOT
SOCIOECONOMIC DIVERSITY
WHICH MIGHT ALSO CAPTURE
RACIAL DIVERSITY?
>> IT MIGHT AS ALMOST AN
ACCIDENT OR AS A PROXY BUT
IT DOESN'T GO TO THE
PROBLEM.
MR. CLEGG TALKS ABOUT SKIN
COLOR AS IF IT WERE NOT A
SIGNIFICANT FACTOR IN
AMERICAN SOCIETY.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHY
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR'S OPINION
IS SO IMPORTANT.
BECAUSE SHE SAYS WE CAN'T
IGNORE HISTORY.
WE CAN'T IGNORE WHERE WEAR
NOW.
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF RACE
GOES FAR BEYOND JUST THE
COLOR OF YOUR SKIN.
IT DEALS WITH OPPORTUNITIES
YOU HAVE.
IT DEALS WITH BARRIERS YOU
FACED.
AND IT'S UNSTROOEBLTION TO
SAY THAT YOU CAN DEAL WITH
DISCRIMINATION BY PRETENDING
THAT IT DOESN'T EXIST.
>> YESTERDAY'S RULING WAS
NARROW IN THE SENSE THAT AT
LEAST IN VUS 'TIS KENNEDY'S
WORDS T WAS ABOUT WHO GETS
TO DECIDE, NOT TAKING ON THE
WHOLE ISSUE AS DENNIS PARKER
POINTED OUT.
OTHER TIMES THEY UPHELD
OTHER PORTION OF IT.
IS THIS DOW SUGGEST AN
AVENUE THROUGH BALLOT
INITIATIVES TO ACHIEVE YOUR
AIM?
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT BALLOT
INITIATIVES ARE A GOOD
APPROACH WHERE THAT APPROACH
IS AVAILABLE.
BUT NOT ALL STATES HAVE
THAT.
IN STATES WHERE THEY DON'T
HAVE A BALLOT INITIATIVE
APPROACH, I WOULD HOPE THAT
THE STATE LEGISLATURE WAS
PASS SIMPLE LEGISLATION.
AND I HOPE CONGRESS ACTS IN
THIS AREA TOO.
I THINK THAT CONGRESS REALLY
INTENDED TO BAN THIS KIND OF
DISCRIMINATION WHEN IT
PASSED THE 1964 CIVIL RIGHTS
ACT WHICH WE'RE CELEBRATING
THE ANNIVERSARY OF THIS
YEAR.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY THE
SUPREME COURT IGNORED THE-- OF
THE 1964 CIVIL RIGHTS ACT SO
I THINK CONGRESS NEEDS TO GO
BACK AND CLARIFY THAT.
>> Ifill: IS THERE A ROLE IN
THIS.
>> FIRST OF ALL I DONE THINK
THAT IT IS AT ALL CLEAR THAT
OUR CONGRESS NEVER INTENDED
FOR AFFIRMATIVE ACTION TO BE
PERMITTED.
AND AGAIN CLEARLY THE
SUPREME COURT PERMITS THAT.
BUT I THINK ONE OF THE
THINGS YOU HAVE TOEP
MIND IS THAT PART OF THE
PURPOSE OF THE CONSTITUTION
IS TO PROTECT MINORITY
GROUPS WHO MAY NOT HAVE THE
ABILITY TO GET ENOUGH VOTES
TO PASS OR TO DEFEAT AN I
NES DIFFICULT LIKE THAT, BUT
ARE STILL SUBJECT TO BURDENS
AND TO DISVACS.
AND THAT'S PART OF THE
PROBLEM OF THIS CASE.
IS THAT YOU HAD PEOPLE, YOU
HAVE PEOPLE WHO ARE
SUFFERING, WHO ARE NOT
PERMITTED TO ASSERT THIS
IMPORTANT THING AND AS A
RESULT YOU HAVE, YOU KNOW,
IN MICHIGAN THE NUMBER OF
BLACK STUDENTS DECREASED 33%
AFTER THE PASSAGE.
>> DENNIS PARKER OF THE ACLU
AND ROGER COLLECTION FROM
THE CENTER OF EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
SOUTH SUDAN BLAMED REBEL
FIGHTERS FOR THE MASSACRE OF
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE LAST WEEK.
THE REBELS' LEADER DENIED IT.
THE CONFIRMED BODY COUNT IN THE
SOUTH KOREAN FERRY DISASTER
TOPPED 150.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA BEGAN A
FOUR-NATION ASIA TRIP, WITH A
STOP IN JAPAN.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, ANOTHER LONG LIST OF
ENDANGERED SPECIES WE SHOULD
WORRY ABOUT.
BUT THEY'RE NOT IN THE AMAZON OR
THE ARCTIC, THEY'RE IN OUR
BODIES.
SCIENTISTS ARE DISCOVERING THAT
THE DIVERSITY OF MICRO-ORGANISMS
IN OUR GUT IS SHRINKING, WHICH
COULD AFFECT HOW WE FIGHT
INFECTIONS.
THAT'S PART OF OUR "EXTINCTION
WEEK" SERIES, WHICH YOU CAN FIND
ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE.
AND TOMORROW, CHAT WITH ONE OF
THE GREATEST EXTINCT CREATURES
OF ALL TIME.
THE NATION'S T-REX IS JOINING US
ON TWITTER FROM 1:00 P.M. TO
2:00 P.M. EASTERN.
BECAUSE HE'S BASICALLY NOTHING
BUT BONES, A MEMBER OF THE
SMITHSONIAN'S NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
NATURAL HISTORY WILL BE THERE TO
ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS.
DETAILS ARE ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
FIGHT OVER POLITICS AND MONEY IN
NEW YORK CITY'S "CHARTER SCHOOL
WAR."
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, T REX INCLUDED, THANK
YOU AND GOOD NIGHT